+++
title = "Here's the first To-Do List post."
date = 2006-07-27T13:03:00Z
updated = 2006-11-08T17:42:06Z
blogimport = true 
[author]
	name = "Darian Hickman"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/115033250601381085689"
+++

<ol><li>Blake Douglas is creating the cover art.  Must follow up with him.</li><li>Joel Catalan created a great sound track. Need to update the flashplayer to be smarter.  Autoplay on the first page load and not the following page loads. </li><li>Set up meeting with Chayanakya this weekend on using his company to build AJAX version of Village.</li><li>Meet with Ryan and get some help on deciding how to give out company shares to key investors and employees.</li><li>Maybe meet with Norsworthy Friday.   </li><li>Followup with NPD marketing research purchase.</li><li>Set up Kenya visit: visa, shots, scheduling visits with orgs in Kenya.</li><ol><li>Read up on all the Kenya related business activities posted at <a href="http://nextbillion.net/" title="http://nextbillion.net (http://nextbillion.net)" target="_blank" onclick="return top.js.OpenExtLink(window,event,this)">  nextbillion.net</a>.</li></ol><li>Set up India visit: visa, shots, scheduling visits with development companies in India.</li><li>Follow up with Calin on building a village map.</li><li>Follow up with Tyler Kohler on landscaping CAD of a village.   </li><li>Talk with Farid about doing some serious AJAX coding.</li><li>Write up details about making a proposal with Students Sharing to JHU School of Public Health for getting their help in modelling impact of various public health related businesses. </li><ol><li>Research what they are looking for in internship/project proposals.</li><li>Write up spreadsheet model for public health issues inside Village the Game.</li></ol><li>Fill in the design document template that Calin sent me.</li><li>Gather visual examples for designing the Village interface<br />  </li><ol><li>Create screenshots and captions of features from other games and apps that I want used in Village.     </li><li>Capture graphs/charts from SimCity 4.</li><li>Capture unit placement/movement like Warcraft II</li><li>Create something like labels in GMail that group related charts, graphs, forms.  ?"Window Groups?"</li></ol><li>Design a logo for Village.   </li><li>Make business cards.</li><li>Research grants and business loans.<br />  </li></ol>
