+++
title = "Legal Information"
date = 2006-06-05T19:23:00Z
updated = 2007-06-14T16:12:02Z
blogimport = true 
[author]
	name = "Darian Hickman"
	uri = "https://plus.google.com/115033250601381085689"
+++

<p><span style="font-weight: bold;">Copyright</span> </p><p>Copyright © 2006-2007 VillagetheGame.com, LLC. All rights reserved.<br />Village the Game is the trading name of VillagetheGame.com, LLC, hereafter referred to as Village.<br />Village also does business as “Village the Game”.   </p><p>All editorial content and graphics on this site is the property of Village and protected by United States and international copyright laws. All software used on this site is the property of Village and protected by United States and international copyright laws. The compilation of all content on this site is the exclusive property of Village and protected by U.S. and international copyright laws. Re-use of any of our content and graphics online for any purpose is strictly prohibited. An exception to this rule is that pages may be downloaded into a web browser cache or printed for personal use only. The HTML used to create these pages, the look and feel of the site is also covered by copyright. </p><span style="font-weight: bold;" class="subhead2">Trademarks</span><p class="text">Village, the Village logo and associated trade dress are trademarks of VillagetheGame.com, LLC. Other brands may be trademarks of their respective owners. </p><p class="text">All other brand names, product names or trademarks are the property of their respective owners. </p><span class="subhead2"><b>Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability</b></span><p>This site is provided "as is" without a warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied. Village assumes no responsibility for errors or omissions in this site or other documents referenced by or linked from this site. Village has no control over the content of other sites linked from this site. </p><p>Village does not warrant that this site, its servers, or email sent from Village are free of viruses or other harmful components. Village will not be liable for any damages of any kind arising from the use of this site, including, but not limited to direct, indirect, incidental, punitive and consequential damages.</p><b><span class="subhead2">Applicable Law</span></b><p> By visiting VillagetheGame.com, you agree that the laws of the state of California, without regard to principles of conflict of laws, will govern these Conditions of Use and any dispute of any sort that might arise between you and VillagetheGame.com LLC or its affiliates.</p>
